

  Why a blood donating app?

  - Every year our nation requires about 4 Crore units of blood, out of which only 40 Lakh units of blood are available, which is insubstantial.
  There is no substituent for blood and also cannot be manufactured . It can only come from voluntary donors.

- Even researchers, who induced pluripotent stem cells to create blood substituents in mice was not successful in manufacturing blood.
  The compatibility factor plays a great role in this process. The compatibility of blood varies person to person.

- Every 2 seconds blood is needed.

- A staggering amount of 38,000 blood donations are required everyday.
 
- According to R Balamurali Krishna, a total of 30 million blood components are transfused each year.
  The average red blood cell transfusion is approximately 3 pint

- One pint can approximately save 3 lives.
  
  
  How it can help?


  - Donating blood can help:

  ? People who go through disasters or emergency situations.

  ? People who lose blood during major surgeries during operations.

  ? People who lost blood because of a gastrointestinal bleed.

  ? Women who have serious complications during pregnancy or at childbirth. 

  ? People with diseases caused by thalassemia or sickle cell disease.


  Features:
  
   The features we will be implementing for the easy use of our application.
  
   1.Location based voluntary blood donor search.

   2.Blood donor registration: login, edit profile, delete profile and change password.
   
   3.Donor's contacts like phone number and address will be made available.
   
   4.The details of the donor will be hidden for 56 days after donating(for the person to be able to donate blood again).
   
   5.The results will be showed based on the Body Mass Index(BMI) of the person to make sure that the person 
     is elligible to donate blood.
   
   6.Requesting blood in advance will be made available . So, when a blood donor will be found in his/her proximity,
     the person requesting blood will be notified.
   
   7.Also , we will implement the search for availability of blood in nearby blood banks.